- When we use the term computer,
we're usually referring to a collection
of various hardware components
that make up the computer as a whole.
Even though there are many types
of computers available today,
they're all comprised of a similar set
of primary hardware parts, like the base unit,
the monitor, the keyboard, the mouse, and speakers.
What we refer to as the base unit
contains all the hardware components that are necessary
for the computer to function.
For example, this is where you'll find the hard drive,
which is your computer's storage device.
Kind of like the filing cabinet
where everything on your computer is stored,
from programs, to documents, to videos.
Basically anything that's stored on your computer
is stored on the hard drive.
You'll also find the RAM or memory in the base unit.
Think of your computer's RAM as the desk in your office.
In order to work with the files from my filing cabinet,
I need to have space on my desk
to pile and organize my files.
The smaller the desk, the fewer the files
and other items I can work with at a time.
Similarly, the less RAM you have,
the fewer documents and applications
it can have running at once on your computer.
That's why RAM is one of the most common upgrades
people have done to their computers.
Also found the base unit is the CPU,
or central processing unit.
The CPU is the computer's brain.
And it's the item that carries out all the functions
of the computer, from processing instructions
from the programs you're running
to keeping the operating system working.
The base unit is also where you'll find the various ports
that allow you to connect additional hardware
to your computer, like printers,
external hard drives, and so on.
For some computers, the base unit is a separate component.
While on devices like laptop or tablet computers,
all the items I mentioned, like the hard drive,
the memory, and so on are built into the computer.
Similarly on laptops and tablets,
the monitor is built into the computer,
while with other computers, the monitor is a separate device
that you connect to the base unit.
The monitor, sometimes referred to as the display,
is what allows you to see what's being displayed
by the computer, whatever that may be,
from text documents, to videos, to photos.
But to actually interact with and use a computer,
you need a keyboard and a mouse.
The keyboard lets you input text, numbers,
and other characters into the applications you're using.
And the mouse is a pointing device
that allows you to operate the computer
by pointing at and interacting with
the elements that are on the screen.
Again, on some computers,
the keyboard and the mouse are separate devices
that you need to connect to the base unit's ports
in order to use them.
On laptops, the keyboard is built in.
And most laptops generally use a pointing device
called a track pad
for moving the mouse cursor on the screen.
On tablet devices, you generally don't use a mouse,
but instead tap or slide your finger on the screen
to interact with the device.
And the keyboard is often virtual.
Meaning it appears on screen
when you need to input text or other characters.
Other important hardware components
that make up computers these days
include speakers, which allow you to hear audio
from the apps you're using.
This could be music,
or the soundtrack from a video you're watching,
or what people are saying in a video conference.
Without speakers, you won't be able to hear
the sounds your computer is making.
And similarly, you'll need a microphone
if you want to be able to be heard through your computer,
whether it's in a video conferencing app
or other program where you may need to record your voice.
Again, laptops and tablets
usually have speakers and microphones built in,
while other computers require you
to connect external speakers and microphones.
Now of course, there's a lot more
that can make up a computer.
But the components we covered here,
the base unit, the monitor, the keyboard and mouse,
and speakers and microphone, are the most essential parts
needed to interact with and operate
most of the apps you'll commonly use on your computer.